The governing body has also asked me to address another topic that I must say hits close
to my heart, being a father who raised two boys.
The subject is the abuse of children and the damaging effects this can have on such innocent
victims.
As an organization, we view all such abuse of children whether physical, sexual, or emotional
as deplorable.
As you likely know, Jehovah's Witnesses take a stronger position than most on the scriptural
and appropriateness of any form of immorality.
However, to take advantage of innocent young ones is absolutely despicable.
As a religious organization, we have taken a decisive stand against such behavior.
It is our fervent desire to protect children from any kind of abuse.
Our policy, as an organization, is that one professing to be a victim or his parents should
never be discouraged from reporting the incident to the appropriate authorities.
While child abuse has been perpetrated earth-wide in many cultures for thousands of years, it
is only in the past 40 years or so that the magnitude and the extent of the problem has
become better known.
This is because governmental agencies are now determined to take a more active interest
in this problem.
Laws were enacted requiring medical and other professionals to report cases to the authorities
when they became aware of them.
Try to that time, many governmental, educational and religious organizations were somewhat naive
about the magnitude and the complexity of the situation.
Others knew of the problem and covered it up.
What has our position been as an organization?
When what was termed as the new morality became popular over 50 years ago, which included
sexual relations among young ones, we condemned such behavior based on the Bible's unhearing
and timeless principles.
As the awareness of child abuse became more and more known, we published a landmark of
Wake magazine over 30 years ago.
It was the issue of June 22, 1982.
There are five article titles that nailed the subject in a very straightforward manner.
The first article wasn't titled The New Morality, and then Chickens and Hawks was the second article.
It warned about homosexual men who prey on and advocate the right to use boys for sex.
Shame on them.
The next article, Baby Pros and Kitty porn,
condemned prostitute rings that employed small girls in an array of abuse.
Then rape at home, no further explanation needed on that.
And finally, the article to end child abuse.
I remembered this magazine well since I had two boys who were in elementary school at the time.
And again, remember that the world in general was still somewhat naive about the magnitude
of this issue and the gravity of the problem.
I read the five articles, then I looked at my two boys and I said a prayer to your whole
of them, thanking him for moving the organization to be so proactive in trying to help parents
to protect their young ones from the plague of the new morality in the abuse of children.
This issue has been straightforwardly addressed in print many times since then.
I now like you to view a PSA.
What is a PSA?
It stands for public service announcement.
It is a message of public interest, which is aired by the media without charge.
The objective is to raise awareness about changing public attitudes and behavior towards
a social issue.
And stations are not obligated to play all such 30 to 60 second messages provided.
However, if the topic and production value captures their attention, they can choose
to air a PSA for the benefit of the viewing audience.
In the late 1990s, the governing body approved four PSAs on the subject of family life.
I'd like to show you one of these that was produced back in 2002.
It was picked up and aired by some of the largest TV networks in the United States.
Why?
Because they realized this type of warning was important for their viewing audience to
see.
It is true.
The type of computer equipment shown in the video dates it, however, the message is just
as pertinent now as then, and maybe even more so, please watch.
He understands you, and makes you feel special.
He knows everything you're interested in.
He's your best friend, and always there when you need him.
He seems too good to be true.
He is, parents, protect your children, and most of all, give your children knowledge,
wisdom, and thinking ability.
Love builds happy families.
While we cannot control everything that an individual might say, it is clear that over
the decades, protecting children from abuse is a top priority for this organization.
We are proud of our reputation in this regard.
And we look forward to the time in God's new world when no one, young or old, will
ever again be a victim of abuse.
Since the latter part of our discussion has addressed what Jehovah's organization has
done to protect children from predators, it gives me great pleasure to release it this
time another animated video in the series, Become Jehovah's Friend.
It is entitled, Protect Your Children.
Children, Jehovah wants you to be happy and keep you safe.
But some people want to do bad things to you.
So Jehovah gave you a conscience.
It's like an alarm system that helps you to know right from wrong.
It will protect you from danger.
So Mum and I will help you test your alarm system.
Ready?
What if someone tells you something that makes you feel uncomfortable or scares you?
What do you do?
I'm not sure, but that's weird.
Stop.
Very good.
Tell them to stop it and you tell Mum and Daddy.
No matter what someone tells you, never keep a secret from us.
What if they ask you to do something that makes you feel uncomfortable?
I would say no.
You're right.
You should say no and walk away.
What if they try to touch you where they shouldn't?
I wouldn't let them.
I'd get out of there.
And Caleb, even if it's an adult you know and trust, you should say no and run away.
And you should yell, stop doing that.
I'm going to tell on you.
Stop doing that.
The world can be a scary place, but you are never alone.
Remember, you have your conscience, your mum and dad who love you, and you have Jehovah.
We're happy to see how Jehovah's organization continues to teach our young ones how to make
wise choices when the figure of monsters of this world try to lure them into their traps.
And you parents should be commended for your tireless efforts to protect your children.